scenarios/ocd/CreateLinuxVMAndSSH/README.md, before:

# Create a Linux VM and SSH On Azure

## Define Environment Variables

<<<<<<< HEAD
The First step in this tutorial is to define environment variables.
=======
The First step in this tutorial is to define environment variables
>>>>>>> 4370f5d (Fixing all markdownlint messages for the Linux doc)

```bash
export RANDOM_ID="$(openssl rand -hex 3)"
export MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME="myVMResourceGroup$RANDOM_ID"
export REGION=EastUS
export MY_VM_NAME="myVM$RANDOM_ID"
export MY_USERNAME=azureuser
export MY_VM_IMAGE="Canonical:0001-com-ubuntu-minimal-jammy:minimal-22_04-lts-gen2:latest"
```

# Login to Azure using the CLI

In order to run commands against Azure using the CLI you need to login. This is done, very simply, though the `az login` command:

# Create a resource group

A resource group is a container for related resources. All resources must be placed in a resource group. We will create one for this tutorial. The following command creates a resource group with the previously defined $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME and $REGION parameters.

```bash
az group create --name $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME --location $REGION
```

Results:

<!-- expected_similarity=0.3 -->
```json
{
  "id": "/subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/myVMResourceGroup",
  "location": "eastus",
  "managedBy": null,
  "name": "myVMResourceGroup",
  "properties": {
    "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
  },
  "tags": null,
  "type": "Microsoft.Resources/resourceGroups"
}
```

## Create the Virtual Machine

To create a VM in this resource group we need to run a simple command, here we have provided the `--generate-ssh-keys` flag, this will cause the CLI to look for an avialable ssh key in `~/.ssh`, if one is found it will be used, otherwise one will be generated and stored in `~/.ssh`. We also provide the `--public-ip-sku Standard` flag to ensure that the machine is accessible via a public IP. Finally, we are deploying the latest `Ubuntu 22.04` image.

All other values are configured using environment variables.

```bash
az vm create \
    --resource-group $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME \
    --name $MY_VM_NAME \
    --image $MY_VM_IMAGE \
    --admin-username $MY_USERNAME \
    --generate-ssh-keys \
    --public-ip-sku Standard
```

Results:

<!-- expected_similarity=0.3 -->
```json
{
  "fqdns": "",
  "id": "/subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/myVMResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/myVM",
  "location": "eastus",
  "macAddress": "00-0D-3A-10-4F-70",
  "powerState": "VM running",
  "privateIpAddress": "10.0.0.4",
  "publicIpAddress": "52.147.208.85",
  "resourceGroup": "myVMResourceGroup",
  "zones": ""
}
```

### Enable Azure AD login for a Linux Virtual Machine in Azure

The following example has deploys a Linux VM and then installs the extension to enable Azure AD login for a Linux VM. VM extensions are small applications that provide post-deployment configuration and automation tasks on Azure virtual machines.

```bash
az vm extension set \
    --publisher Microsoft.Azure.ActiveDirectory \
    --name AADSSHLoginForLinux \
    --resource-group $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME \
    --vm-name $MY_VM_NAME
```

# Store IP Address of VM in order to SSH

run the following command to get the IP Address of the VM and store it as an environment variable

```bash
export IP_ADDRESS=$(az vm show --show-details --resource-group $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME --name $MY_VM_NAME --query publicIps --output tsv)
```

# SSH Into VM

<!--## Export the SSH configuration for use with SSH clients that support OpenSSH & SSH into the VM.
Login to Azure Linux VMs with Azure AD supports exporting the OpenSSH certificate and configuration. That means you can use any SSH clients that support OpenSSH-based certificates to sign in through Azure AD. The following example exports the configuration for all IP addresses assigned to the VM:-->

<!--
```bash
<<<<<<< HEAD
yes | az ssh config --file ~/.ssh/config --name $MY_VM_NAME --resource-group $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME
=======
export MY_AZURE_USER=$(az account show --query user.name --output tsv)
export MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_ID=$(az group show --resource-group $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME --query id -o tsv)

az role assignment create \
    --role "Virtual Machine Administrator Login" \
    --assignee $MY_AZURE_USER \
    --scope $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_ID
```

## Export the SSH configuration for use with SSH clients that support OpenSSH

Login to Azure Linux VMs with Azure AD supports exporting the OpenSSH certificate and configuration. That means you can use any SSH clients that support OpenSSH-based certificates to sign in through Azure AD. The following example exports the configuration for all IP addresses assigned to the VM:

```bash
az ssh config --file ~/.ssh/config --name $MY_VM_NAME --resource-group $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME
>>>>>>> 4370f5d (Fixing all markdownlint messages for the Linux doc)
```
-->

You can now SSH into the VM by running the output of the following command in your ssh client of choice

```bash
ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no $MY_USERNAME@$IP_ADDRESS
```

# Next Steps

* [VM Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/)
* [Use Cloud-Init to initialize a Linux VM on first boot](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/tutorial-automate-vm-deployment)
* [Create custom VM images](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/tutorial-custom-images)
* [Load Balance VMs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/load-balancer/quickstart-load-balancer-standard-public-cli)

Commit message:

Improving the safety of role assignment command

scenarios/ocd/CreateLinuxVMAndSSH/README.md, after:

# Create a Linux VM and SSH On Azure

## Define Environment Variables

The First step in this tutorial is to define environment variables.

```bash
export RANDOM_ID="$(openssl rand -hex 3)"
export MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME="myVMResourceGroup$RANDOM_ID"
export REGION=EastUS
export MY_VM_NAME="myVM$RANDOM_ID"
export MY_USERNAME=azureuser
export MY_VM_IMAGE="Canonical:0001-com-ubuntu-minimal-jammy:minimal-22_04-lts-gen2:latest"
export MY_AZURE_USER=$(az account show --query user.name --output tsv)
```

# Login to Azure using the CLI

In order to run commands against Azure using the CLI you need to login. This is done, very simply, though the `az login` command:

# Create a resource group

A resource group is a container for related resources. All resources must be placed in a resource group. We will create one for this tutorial. The following command creates a resource group with the previously defined $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME and $REGION parameters.

```bash
az group create --name $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME --location $REGION
```

Results:

<!-- expected_similarity=0.3 -->
```json
{
  "id": "/subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/myVMResourceGroup",
  "location": "eastus",
  "managedBy": null,
  "name": "myVMResourceGroup",
  "properties": {
    "provisioningState": "Succeeded"
  },
  "tags": null,
  "type": "Microsoft.Resources/resourceGroups"
}
```

## Create the Virtual Machine

To create a VM in this resource group we need to run a simple command, here we have provided the `--generate-ssh-keys` flag, this will cause the CLI to look for an avialable ssh key in `~/.ssh`, if one is found it will be used, otherwise one will be generated and stored in `~/.ssh`. We also provide the `--public-ip-sku Standard` flag to ensure that the machine is accessible via a public IP. Finally, we are deploying the latest `Ubuntu 22.04` image.

All other values are configured using environment variables.

```bash
az vm create \
    --resource-group $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME \
    --name $MY_VM_NAME \
    --image $MY_VM_IMAGE \
    --admin-username $MY_USERNAME \
    --generate-ssh-keys \
    --public-ip-sku Standard
```

Results:

<!-- expected_similarity=0.3 -->
```json
{
  "fqdns": "",
  "id": "/subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/myVMResourceGroup/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/myVM",
  "location": "eastus",
  "macAddress": "00-0D-3A-10-4F-70",
  "powerState": "VM running",
  "privateIpAddress": "10.0.0.4",
  "publicIpAddress": "52.147.208.85",
  "resourceGroup": "myVMResourceGroup",
  "zones": ""
}
```

### Enable Azure AD login for a Linux Virtual Machine in Azure

The following example has deploys a Linux VM and then installs the extension to enable Azure AD login for a Linux VM. VM extensions are small applications that provide post-deployment configuration and automation tasks on Azure virtual machines.

```bash
az vm extension set \
    --publisher Microsoft.Azure.ActiveDirectory \
    --name AADSSHLoginForLinux \
    --resource-group $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME \
    --vm-name $MY_VM_NAME
```

# Store IP Address of VM in order to SSH

Run the following command to get the IP Address of the VM and store it as an environment variable.

```bash
export IP_ADDRESS=$(az vm show --show-details --resource-group $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME --name $MY_VM_NAME --query publicIps --output tsv)
```

# SSH Into VM

<!--## Export the SSH configuration for use with SSH clients that support OpenSSH & SSH into the VM.
Login to Azure Linux VMs with Azure AD supports exporting the OpenSSH certificate and configuration. That means you can use any SSH clients that support OpenSSH-based certificates to sign in through Azure AD. The following example exports the configuration for all IP addresses assigned to the VM:-->

<!--
```bash
yes | az ssh config --file ~/.ssh/config --name $MY_VM_NAME --resource-group $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME
```
-->

The following example uses [az role assignment create](https://learn.microsoft.com/cli/azure/role/assignment#az-role-assignment-create) to assign the Virtual Machine Administrator Login role to the VM for your current Azure user.

```bash
export MY_AZURE_USER=$(az account show --query user.name --output tsv)
export MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_ID=$(az group show --resource-group $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME --query id -o tsv)

az role assignment create \
    --role "Virtual Machine Administrator Login" \
    --assignee $MY_AZURE_USER \
    --scope $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_ID
```

## Export the SSH configuration for use with SSH clients that support OpenSSH
Login to Azure Linux VMs with Azure AD supports exporting the OpenSSH certificate and configuration. That means you can use any SSH clients that support OpenSSH-based certificates to sign in through Azure AD. The following example exports the configuration for all IP addresses assigned to the VM:

```bash
az ssh config --file ~/.ssh/config --name $MY_VM_NAME --resource-group $MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME
```

You can now SSH into the VM by running the output of the following command in your ssh client of choice

```bash
ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no $MY_USERNAME@$IP_ADDRESS
```

# Next Steps

* [VM Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/)
* [Use Cloud-Init to initialize a Linux VM on first boot](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/tutorial-automate-vm-deployment)
* [Create custom VM images](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/linux/tutorial-custom-images)
* [Load Balance VMs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/load-balancer/quickstart-load-balancer-standard-public-cli)
