README.md, before:

# Overview

Innovation Engine is a tool for rapid innovation and simplification.

# Executable Documentation 
Executable documentation takes standard markdown language and amplifies it by allowing it to be executed step by step in an educational manner, and tested via automated CI/CD pipelines.

# Try Out Executable Documentation 
Azure Cloud Shell provides an environment with all of the prerequisites installed to run Executable Documentation. This is the recommended method for new users to try and develop tutorials for Innovation Engine. 

Open [Azure Cloud Shell](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#cloudshell/) and select Bash as the environment.  

>**Note** This snippet clones the Innovation Engine repo, installs necessary dependencies, and runs the interactive Innovation Engine tutorial script.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Azure/InnovationEngine

cd innovationEngine

pip3 install -r requirements.txt

python3 main.py test tutorial.md
```

The general format to run an executable document is: 
`python3 main.py <MODE_OF_OPERATION> <SCRIPT_DIRECTORY_NAME>`

### Modes of Operation
Today, executable documentation can be run in 3 modes of operation:

Interactive: Displays the descriptive text of the tutorial and pauses at code blocks and headings to allow user interaction `python3 main.py interactive tutorial.md`

Test: Runs the commands and then verifies that the output is sufficiently similar to the expected results (recorded in the markdown file) to be considered correct. `python3 main.py test tutorial.md`

Execute: Reads the document and executes all of the code blocks not pausing for input or testing output. Essentially executes a markdown file as a script. `python3 main.py execute tutorial.md`
## Use Executable documentation for Automated Testing
One of the core benefits of executable documentation is the ability to run automated testing on markdown file. This can be used to ensure freshness of content.

In order to do this one will need to combine innovation engine executable documentation syntax with GitHub actions. 

In order to test if a command or action ran correctly executable documentation needs something to compare the results against. This requirement is met with result blocks.

### Result Blocks
Result blocks are distinguished in Executable documentation by a custom expected_similarity comment tag followed by a code block. For example

<!!--expected_similarity=0.8-->
<!--expected_similarity=0.8-->
```text
Hello world
```
This example purposely breaks the comment syntax so that it shows up in markdown. Otherwise, the tag of expected_similarity is completely invisible.

The expected similarity value is a floating point number between 0 and 1 which specifies how closely the output needs to match the results block. 0 being no similarity, 1 being an exact match.

>**Note** It may take a little bit of trial and error to find the exact value for expected_similarity.

### Environment Variables

Another barrier to automated testing is setting default values for test cases to use in running. This problem can be solved with command line variables in Executable documentation Syntax. 

Default environment variables can be set for executable documentation in a few different ways. 

1. A matching .ini file to the markdown
  - Upon running any document executable documentation will look for a corresponding .ini file. For example if my markdown file is named tutorial.md the corresponding ini file would be tutorial.ini. 
  - This file is a simple key value match for environment variable and value. For example:
    ```ini
    MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME = myResourceGroup
    MY_LOCATION = eastus
    MY_VM_NAME = myVM
    MY_VM_IMAGE = debian
    MY_ADMIN_USERNAME = azureuser
    ```
2. A comment at the beginning of the document containing a code blog with the tag 'variables'. This will be invisible to users unless they look at the raw markdown. For example:
    >**Note** The below example intentionally has broken comment syntax w/ two !'s.
  
    <!!-- 
    ```variables
    export MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME=myResourceGroup22323
    export MY_LOCATION=eastus
    export MY_VM_NAME=myVM
    export MY_VM_IMAGE=debian
    export MY_ADMIN_USERNAME=azureuser
    ```
    -->

Variables set in comments will override variables set in a .ini file. Consequently, locally declared variables in code samples will override variables set in comments. 

### Setting Up GitHub Actions to use Innovation Engine

After documentation is set up to take advantage of automated testing a github action will need to be created to run testing on a recurring basis. The action will simply create a basic Linux container, install Innovation Engine Executable Documentation and run Executable documentation in the Test mode on whatever markdown files are specified.

It is important to note that if you require any specific access or cli tools not included in standard bash that will need to be installed in the container. The following example is how this may be done for a document which runs Azure commands.

```yml
name: 00-testing

on:
  push:
    branches:
    - main

  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v2
    - uses: azure/login@v1
      with:
        creds: ${{ secrets.AZURE_CREDENTIALS }}
    - name: Deploy
      env:
        AZURE_CREDENTIALS: ${{ secrets.AZURE_CREDENTIALS }}
        GITHUB_SHA: ${{ github.sha }}
      run: |
        cd $GITHUB_WORKSPACE/
        git clone https://github.com/Azure/InnovationEngine/tree/ParserAndExecutor
        cd innovationEngine
        pip3 install -r requirements.txt
        cp ../../articles/quick-create-cli.md README.md
        python3 main.py test README.md
```


## Use Executable Documentation for Interactive Documentation 

Innovation Engine can also be used for interactive tutorials via a local or remote shell environment. After cloning the project and running `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`, Innovation Engine can be used for interactive tutorials by simply using the interactive flag when executing the program. For example, `python3 main.py interactive tutorial.md`

As it is written the code will pause and wait for input on any header or code block. Any document written in standard markdown can be run as an interactive document.

## Contributing

This is an open source project. Don't keep your code improvements,
features and cool ideas to yourself. Please issue pull requests
against our [GitHub repo](https://github.com/Azure/innovationengine).

Be sure to use our Git pre-commit script to test your contributions
before committing, simply run the following command: `python3 main.py test test`

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most
contributions require you to agree to a Contributor License Agreement
(CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit
https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine
whether you need to provide a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately
(e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions provided by the
bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our
CLA.

This project has adopted
the
[Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see
the
[Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with
any additional questions or comments.


## Trademarks

This project may contain trademarks or logos for projects, products, or services. Authorized use of Microsoft 
trademarks or logos is subject to and must follow 
[Microsoft's Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.
Any use of third-party trademarks or logos are subject to those third-party's policies.

Commit message:

Improve getting started docs
1. fix capitlization error 
2. use virtual environment
3. separate installation from running

README.md, after:

# Overview

Innovation Engine is a tool for rapid innovation and simplification.

# Executable Documentation 
Executable documentation takes standard markdown language and amplifies it by allowing it to be executed step by step in an educational manner, and tested via automated CI/CD pipelines.

# Try Out Executable Documentation 
Azure Cloud Shell provides an environment with all of the prerequisites installed to run Executable Documentation. This is the recommended method for new users to try and develop tutorials for Innovation Engine. 

Open [Azure Cloud Shell](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#cloudshell/) and select Bash as the environment. Paste the following commands into the shell, this will clone the Innovation Engine repo, create a virtual environment and install the necessary dependencies.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Azure/InnovationEngine;
cd InnovationEngine;
virtualenv innovationEngine;
source innovationEngine/bin/activate
pip3 install -r requirements.txt;
```

Now you can run the interactive Innovation Engine tutorial with the following command:

```bash
python3 main.py test tutorial.md
```

The general format to run an executable document is: 
`python3 main.py <MODE_OF_OPERATION> <SCRIPT_DIRECTORY_NAME>`

### Modes of Operation
Today, executable documentation can be run in 3 modes of operation:

Interactive: Displays the descriptive text of the tutorial and pauses at code blocks and headings to allow user interaction `python3 main.py interactive tutorial.md`

Test: Runs the commands and then verifies that the output is sufficiently similar to the expected results (recorded in the markdown file) to be considered correct. `python3 main.py test tutorial.md`

Execute: Reads the document and executes all of the code blocks not pausing for input or testing output. Essentially executes a markdown file as a script. `python3 main.py execute tutorial.md`
## Use Executable documentation for Automated Testing
One of the core benefits of executable documentation is the ability to run automated testing on markdown file. This can be used to ensure freshness of content.

In order to do this one will need to combine innovation engine executable documentation syntax with GitHub actions. 

In order to test if a command or action ran correctly executable documentation needs something to compare the results against. This requirement is met with result blocks.

### Result Blocks
Result blocks are distinguished in Executable documentation by a custom expected_similarity comment tag followed by a code block. For example

<!!--expected_similarity=0.8-->
<!--expected_similarity=0.8-->
```text
Hello world
```
This example purposely breaks the comment syntax so that it shows up in markdown. Otherwise, the tag of expected_similarity is completely invisible.

The expected similarity value is a floating point number between 0 and 1 which specifies how closely the output needs to match the results block. 0 being no similarity, 1 being an exact match.

>**Note** It may take a little bit of trial and error to find the exact value for expected_similarity.

### Environment Variables

Another barrier to automated testing is setting default values for test cases to use in running. This problem can be solved with command line variables in Executable documentation Syntax. 

Default environment variables can be set for executable documentation in a few different ways. 

1. A matching .ini file to the markdown
  - Upon running any document executable documentation will look for a corresponding .ini file. For example if my markdown file is named tutorial.md the corresponding ini file would be tutorial.ini. 
  - This file is a simple key value match for environment variable and value. For example:
    ```ini
    MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME = myResourceGroup
    MY_LOCATION = eastus
    MY_VM_NAME = myVM
    MY_VM_IMAGE = debian
    MY_ADMIN_USERNAME = azureuser
    ```
2. A comment at the beginning of the document containing a code blog with the tag 'variables'. This will be invisible to users unless they look at the raw markdown. For example:
    >**Note** The below example intentionally has broken comment syntax w/ two !'s.
  
    <!!-- 
    ```variables
    export MY_RESOURCE_GROUP_NAME=myResourceGroup22323
    export MY_LOCATION=eastus
    export MY_VM_NAME=myVM
    export MY_VM_IMAGE=debian
    export MY_ADMIN_USERNAME=azureuser
    ```
    -->

Variables set in comments will override variables set in a .ini file. Consequently, locally declared variables in code samples will override variables set in comments. 

### Setting Up GitHub Actions to use Innovation Engine

After documentation is set up to take advantage of automated testing a github action will need to be created to run testing on a recurring basis. The action will simply create a basic Linux container, install Innovation Engine Executable Documentation and run Executable documentation in the Test mode on whatever markdown files are specified.

It is important to note that if you require any specific access or cli tools not included in standard bash that will need to be installed in the container. The following example is how this may be done for a document which runs Azure commands.

```yml
name: 00-testing

on:
  push:
    branches:
    - main

  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v2
    - uses: azure/login@v1
      with:
        creds: ${{ secrets.AZURE_CREDENTIALS }}
    - name: Deploy
      env:
        AZURE_CREDENTIALS: ${{ secrets.AZURE_CREDENTIALS }}
        GITHUB_SHA: ${{ github.sha }}
      run: |
        cd $GITHUB_WORKSPACE/
        git clone https://github.com/Azure/InnovationEngine/tree/ParserAndExecutor
        cd innovationEngine
        pip3 install -r requirements.txt
        cp ../../articles/quick-create-cli.md README.md
        python3 main.py test README.md
```


## Use Executable Documentation for Interactive Documentation 

Innovation Engine can also be used for interactive tutorials via a local or remote shell environment. After cloning the project and running `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`, Innovation Engine can be used for interactive tutorials by simply using the interactive flag when executing the program. For example, `python3 main.py interactive tutorial.md`

As it is written the code will pause and wait for input on any header or code block. Any document written in standard markdown can be run as an interactive document.

## Contributing

This is an open source project. Don't keep your code improvements,
features and cool ideas to yourself. Please issue pull requests
against our [GitHub repo](https://github.com/Azure/innovationengine).

Be sure to use our Git pre-commit script to test your contributions
before committing, simply run the following command: `python3 main.py test test`

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.  Most
contributions require you to agree to a Contributor License Agreement
(CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us
the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit
https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine
whether you need to provide a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately
(e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions provided by the
bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our
CLA.

This project has adopted
the
[Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/).
For more information see
the
[Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or
contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with
any additional questions or comments.


## Trademarks

This project may contain trademarks or logos for projects, products, or services. Authorized use of Microsoft 
trademarks or logos is subject to and must follow 
[Microsoft's Trademark & Brand Guidelines](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/intellectualproperty/trademarks/usage/general).
Use of Microsoft trademarks or logos in modified versions of this project must not cause confusion or imply Microsoft sponsorship.
Any use of third-party trademarks or logos are subject to those third-party's policies.
